COL 333 ASSIGNMENT 2

REPORT

SOURAV
2019CS10404

Part1:

In this part, we design an AI programme for an automated nurse rostering system. In this part, we have 
to deal with the hard constraints that are :
a.No nurse can cover more than one shift on a single day. 
b. A nurse should not be allocated to work in two consecutive morning shifts (M).
c. A nurse cannot work in a morning shift (M) if he/she took the evening shift (E) the preceding day. 
d. The shift coverage requirements are that there should be exactly (m) nurses in the morning shift, (a) 
nurses in the afternoon shift and (e) nurses in the evening shift every day. Note that (m + a + e) <= N. 
e. The hospital must ensure that each nurse gets at least one rest day in a week.
For constraint a we just do only one value assign to each nurse for b constraint we apply a condition 
that is check the previous day shift if that was not morning then okay otherwise assign any value other 
than the Morining shift similarly check for c constraint and for d constrinats we check 3 condition that 
are the first is if a+m+e>N then print NO solution otherwise check if a+e+m ==N then check the number 
of days if days are less than 7 then it is okay we go further if days greater then the or equal to 7 then we 
our contsrint e is not satisfied so for that case print NO solution if any other cazse then we go through it 
and do the schedult and check that all condition for last constraints we just make a set of nurses which 
are not taken rest unil 7n,7n+6 days if they are available for rest then give rest to them otherwise if no 
such case possible then the print NO SOLUTION.

PART 2:

In this part, we design an AI programme for an automated nurse rostering system. In this part, we have 
to deal with the soft constraints that are :
a.The senior nurses prefer the morning or the evening shifts over the afternoon shifts as they need to 
complete paperwork during that time. Their morning, afternoon, evening and rest preference 
constraints can be assigned weights as 2.0, 1.0, 2.0 and 1.0 respectively. All other constraints in the 
problem can be considered as of weight 1.0.
So for doing this part we just first do the case where we follow the hard constraints strictly but also 
apply some condition for satisfying the hard constraints. The conditions are that if therir is any senior 
nurse which are eligible for morning and evening shift then give them morning nd evening shift 
otherwise it’s okay.

Algo used in both part is greedy approach for findng the solution so that we can optimized our code.